docs/docs/10.7-pure-render-mixin.md, before:

---
id: pure-render-mixin
title: PureRenderMixin
permalink: pure-render-mixin.html
prev: update.html
next: perf.html
---

If your React component's render function is "pure" (in other words, it renders the same result given the same props and state), you can use this mixin for a performance boost in some cases.

Example:

```js
var PureRenderMixin = require('react').addons.PureRenderMixin;
React.createClass({
  mixins: [PureRenderMixin],

  render: function() {
    return <div className={this.props.className}>foo</div>;
  }
});
```

Under the hood, the mixin implements [shouldComponentUpdate](/react/docs/component-specs.html#updating-shouldcomponentupdate), in which it compares the current props and state with the next ones and returns `false` if the equalities pass.

> Note:
>
> This only shallowly compares the objects. If these contain complex data structures, it may produce false-negatives for deeper differences. Only mix into components which have simple props and state, or use `forceUpdate()` when you know deep data structures have changed.
>
> Furthermore, `shouldComponentUpdate` skips updates for the whole component subtree. Make sure all the children components are also "pure".

Commit message:

suggesting the use of immutable js for comparisons

docs/docs/10.7-pure-render-mixin.md, after:

---
id: pure-render-mixin
title: PureRenderMixin
permalink: pure-render-mixin.html
prev: update.html
next: perf.html
---

If your React component's render function is "pure" (in other words, it renders the same result given the same props and state), you can use this mixin for a performance boost in some cases.

Example:

```js
var PureRenderMixin = require('react').addons.PureRenderMixin;
React.createClass({
  mixins: [PureRenderMixin],

  render: function() {
    return <div className={this.props.className}>foo</div>;
  }
});
```

Under the hood, the mixin implements [shouldComponentUpdate](/react/docs/component-specs.html#updating-shouldcomponentupdate), in which it compares the current props and state with the next ones and returns `false` if the equalities pass.

> Note:
>
> This only shallowly compares the objects. If these contain complex data structures, it may produce false-negatives for deeper differences. Only mix into components which have simple props and state, or use `forceUpdate()` when you know deep data structures have changed. Or, consider using [immutable objects](http://facebook.github.io/immutable-js/) to facilitate fast comparisons of nested data.
>
> Furthermore, `shouldComponentUpdate` skips updates for the whole component subtree. Make sure all the children components are also "pure".
