docs/docs/ref-04-tags-and-attributes.md, before:

---
id: tags-and-attributes
title: Tags and Attributes
layout: docs
permalink: tags-and-attributes.html
prev: component-specs.html
next: events.html
---

## Supported Tags

React attempts to support all common elements. If you need an element that isn't listed here, please file an issue.

The following elements are supported:


### HTML Elements

```
a abbr address area article aside audio b base bdi bdo big blockquote body br
button canvas caption cite code col colgroup data datalist dd del details dfn
div dl dt em embed fieldset figcaption figure footer form h1 h2 h3 h4 h5 h6
head header hr html i iframe img input ins kbd keygen label legend li link main
map mark menu menuitem meta meter nav noscript object ol optgroup option output
p param pre progress q rp rt ruby s samp script section select small source
span strong style sub summary sup table tbody td textarea tfoot th thead time
title tr track u ul var video wbr
```

### SVG elements

```
circle g line path polyline rect svg text
```


## Supported Attributes

React supports all `data-*` and `aria-*` attributes as well as every attribute in the following lists.

> Note:
>
> All attributes are camel-cased and the attributes `class` and `for` are `className` and `htmlFor`, respectively, to match the DOM API specification.

For a list of events, see [Supported Events](/react/docs/events.html).

### HTML Attributes

```
accept accessKey action allowFullScreen allowTransparency alt autoCapitalize
autoComplete autoFocus autoPlay cellPadding cellSpacing charSet checked
className colSpan content contentEditable contextMenu controls data dateTime
dir disabled draggable encType form frameBorder height hidden href htmlFor
httpEquiv icon id label lang list loop max maxLength method min multiple name
pattern placeholder poster preload radioGroup readOnly rel required role
rowSpan scrollLeft scrollTop selected size spellCheck src step style tabIndex
target title type value width wmode
```

The non-standard `autoCapitalize` attribute is supported for Mobile Safari.

In addition, there is the React-specific attribute `dangerouslySetInnerHTML` ([more here](/react/docs/special-non-dom-attributes.html)), used for directly inserting DOM strings into a component.

### SVG Attributes

```
cx cy d fill fx fy gradientTransform gradientUnits offset points r rx ry
spreadMethod stopColor stopOpacity stroke strokeLinecap strokeWidth transform
version viewBox x1 x2 x y1 y2 y
```

Commit message:

Mention react-art where we talk about SVG

docs/docs/ref-04-tags-and-attributes.md, after:

---
id: tags-and-attributes
title: Tags and Attributes
layout: docs
permalink: tags-and-attributes.html
prev: component-specs.html
next: events.html
---

## Supported Tags

React attempts to support all common elements. If you need an element that isn't listed here, please file an issue.

### HTML Elements

The following SVG elements are supported:

```
a abbr address area article aside audio b base bdi bdo big blockquote body br
button canvas caption cite code col colgroup data datalist dd del details dfn
div dl dt em embed fieldset figcaption figure footer form h1 h2 h3 h4 h5 h6
head header hr html i iframe img input ins kbd keygen label legend li link main
map mark menu menuitem meta meter nav noscript object ol optgroup option output
p param pre progress q rp rt ruby s samp script section select small source
span strong style sub summary sup table tbody td textarea tfoot th thead time
title tr track u ul var video wbr
```

### SVG elements

The following SVG elements are supported:

```
circle g line path polygon polyline rect svg text
```

You may also be interested in [react-art](https://github.com/facebook/react-art), a drawing library for React that can render to Canvas, SVG, or VML (for IE8).


## Supported Attributes

React supports all `data-*` and `aria-*` attributes as well as every attribute in the following lists.

> Note:
>
> All attributes are camel-cased and the attributes `class` and `for` are `className` and `htmlFor`, respectively, to match the DOM API specification.

For a list of events, see [Supported Events](/react/docs/events.html).

### HTML Attributes

```
accept accessKey action allowFullScreen allowTransparency alt autoCapitalize
autoComplete autoFocus autoPlay cellPadding cellSpacing charSet checked
className colSpan content contentEditable contextMenu controls data dateTime
dir disabled draggable encType form frameBorder height hidden href htmlFor
httpEquiv icon id label lang list loop max maxLength method min multiple name
pattern placeholder poster preload radioGroup readOnly rel required role
rowSpan scrollLeft scrollTop selected size spellCheck src step style tabIndex
target title type value width wmode
```

The non-standard `autoCapitalize` attribute is supported for Mobile Safari.

In addition, there is the React-specific attribute `dangerouslySetInnerHTML` ([more here](/react/docs/special-non-dom-attributes.html)), used for directly inserting DOM strings into a component.

### SVG Attributes

```
cx cy d fill fx fy gradientTransform gradientUnits offset points r rx ry
spreadMethod stopColor stopOpacity stroke strokeLinecap strokeWidth transform
version viewBox x1 x2 x y1 y2 y
```
